# wininstall
Microsoft's setup process, written by a Linux user who got tired of doing things the normal way.

# What is Wininstall?
Wininstall is a Linux script, written in bash, that allows you to install Windows from a Linux system. With this script, you can:
- Install Windows versions starting with Windows 7, on both BIOS and UEFI based systems (UEFI is only supported on Windows 8 or later).
- Bypass all checks for system requirements on Windows 11
- Install Windows to portable media, such as external USB SSD and HDD drives, and even some flash drives, provided they are actually fast enough to run a full operating system
- Have a fully functional Windows operating system up in just minutes.
# How to use
Simply run `./wininstall.sh` and follow the onscreen prompts.
# Supported Windows versions
| Version | Supported |
| ----- | ----- |
| Windows 11 | Fully supported |
| Windows 10 | Fully supported |
| Windows 8.1 | Fully supported |
| Windows 8 | Fully supported |
| Windows 7 | Supported on BIOS firmware only |
| Windows Vista and earlier | Not supported |

Please note that although Windows 7 X64 does have partial support for UEFI firmware, this script currently only supports BIOS mode installs at this time, as noted in the table above. if you attempt to install Windows 7 on UEFI firmware, the script will revert to installing in BIOS mode by default. You might still be able to boot the install, provided that your firmware has UEFI CSM support and that it is enabled in firmware.

Also, it is worth noting that ISO files that contain an install.esd file, such as the ISO files generated by the Windows Media Creation Tool, are currently **not supported** at this time. You should try to use a genuine ISO file directly from Microsoft if possible. I recommend using Mass Grave's [Microsoft Software Download Listing](https://msdl.gravesoft.dev/). It allows you to download genuine Windows ISO's directly from Microsoft's servers. You could also just go to [Microsoft's official site](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/software-download/windows11) and download the ISO from there.
# Requirements
- A Windows 7 or later ISO file, either 32 or 64 bit
- A drive large enough to run Windows

You also need the following programs installed on your system:
- awk
- dosfstools
- mkisofs
- ntfs-3g
- qemu-x86_64
- sfdisk
- wimlib